# demo-01

The content stored on this folder is taken from the online course taught by [Toufiq Elahy](https://linkedin.com/in/toufiqelahy), you may want to check [his youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/toufiqelahy/videos) in order to take new tutorials.

The aim of this demo is to build a blockchain, a cryptocurrency similar to the Bitcoin, a Web API and a mobile wallet using C# related technologies, e.g.: Xamarin and ASP.NET Core.

## What it covers

- How miner's can join a blockchain network
- How PoW function works by solving cryptographic puzzle based oh the SHA256 algorithm
- How real-time transactions are added to the mempool
- How mining works and generates new coins
- How transactions are added in a block after mining process
- How a new block is added to a Blockchain after computing the transactions in a block
- How the system resolve conflicts from a longest chain by validating each block along with verifying each transaction
- Consensus: how the longest chain win
- How a signature of a transaction gets verified by using the public key
- How public and private keys are generated by using the RSA algorithm
- How the client user generates his signature by using the private key
- How wallet transaction works
- How to generate wallets and send coins for users
- How to buy digital content in real-time online by using cryptocurrency
- How users can check life-time transactions and balance
- How an user can send coins to another one by using mobile wallet after scanning a QR Code
- How users can generate QR Code images to send or receive coins
- And more

## Prerequisites

- ASP.NET 2.0 or higher
- ASP.NET Web API
- ASP.NET SignalR
- Xamarin

The final product will be an cross-platform blockchain.

## Benefits

- The user just have to generate and remember a public and private key to perform transactions on blockchain
- The presence of a certifying institution such as banks becomes needless to follow complex process
- Anyone can receive money just by having a public key
- Signature sharing reinforces transaction confidentiality and can be generated from the private key
- Money transfer are noticeably faster

## How it will work

Anyone who downloads the application are able to join the network by broadcasting it, they will suddenly be recognized as __miners__. At the genesis block, only miner will have a few coins, so he will coins to the new user, thus transactions will take place and then the miner will have to mine the transactions and the system will reward him with a few coins. The transaction data will be saved on the miner's machine.

## How cryptocoins can have real value

I mean real value, in order to buy real things in the real world? If people start investing their money on a cryptocoin and then do transactions to buy real stuff on real world, then this coin will start to get some value. That's how Bitcoin gets value before, it's totally based on trust and faith.

And coins values also follows demand and supply rules of economics.

## Course guide

On __1st module__ we will review the theory of Blockchain.

On __2nd module__ we will build the blockchain application and then expose it through Web API.

On __3rd module__ we will build the blockchain client application wich interacts with the blockchain API.

On __4th module__ we will build a shopping website using the ASP.NET Core and SignalR, here we will set the payment gateway for the cryptocurrency.

On __5th module__ we will build the mobile wallet app using Xamarin to buy digital content from our shopping site.

### System configuration

Operating System: Debian 10 (buster)
Code editor: VS Code + extensions
Framework: .NET Core
